Now that we’ve explored the concept of Inputs,
we’re ready to move on to Outputs.
Outputs are used in order to create custom
events that sends data from your component
to the outside world.
There’s a few steps involved in creating
our Output Event and then using it.
So what we want to do is send some information
from our nested component to our parent component
and then display that information in the parent
component.
So the first thing that we do is create a
property assigned to an Output similar to
how we created our Input property.
The difference is we’re using an EventEmitter.
Lets dissect this a bit.
An EventEmitter is an object that listens
for something to happen and then publishes
an event when triggered.
This is what’s known as the Observer pattern.
Say we create a new EventEmitter named notify
in our child component.
Now, our child component has become a publisher
and is going to be used to send data up to
its parent using the Emit method.
The parent component now becomes a subscriber
to the notify output.
This means that when notify has emitted this
‘send message’ string it will be automatically
picked up by the parent and can be used in
a method defined in the parent component.
The process of setting up an Output to send
events from child to parent works like this:
First, we open up our child component file
and we import Output and EventEmitter from
angular core.
Then we define an Output with a decorator
followed by a property name.
In this case, we’ll use the name notify.
Notify is of Type EventEmitter.
So remember EventEmitter is an object and
since its an object it also has a type and
that’s what these greater than less than
symbols known as a Generic are doing, its
setting this EventEmitter to a type of String.
So generic is a feature of Typescript that
simply defines the Type of an instance such
as an object instance or function instance.
So we set notify as type EventEmitter and
set it equal to a new instance of EventEmitter
that is of type string and then we invoke
our EventEmitter using parenthesis.
We’re using a type of string here because
we’re going to be emitting a value that
is a string.
But EventEmitters can be of type any.
They can be of type String, Number, Boolean
or Interface for example.
Now we need to setup a method that does something
with our Output property.
So in our child component HTML, when a user
clicks a button, we’re going to trigger
the onClick method.
The onClick method will in turn use our notify
property and emit a string of ‘Message from
child’.
Now, there’s 2 steps we need to take in
our parent in order to display our child’s
message.
The first is in our parent HTML file.
So inside the child selector, we need to wrap
our notify property in parenthesis.
This is our event watcher that gets triggered
anytime someone clicks this button in our
child.
We then set this equal to a method we’ll
create inside of the parent.
This dollar sign event parameter stores whatever
has been emitted from the child, in this case
its going to store the ‘Message from child’
string.
Now in our parent we create the onNotifyClicked
method.
Then inside here we’re just going to set
the message we received equal to a property
called showMessage.
Then we can display our message using interpolation
inside our parent HTML file.
So, when somebody clicks this button in our
child component, we’ll see the string ‘Message
from child’ inside of this showMessage property
inside of our parent.
Now lets walk through this process inside
of our application.